If you are a first year or going into your first year of college! I’m here to give you some tips and tricks into surviving your first year which can be challenging but rewarding if you follow these:

First it’s okay to feel fear and have a nervous pit in your stomach. I think we need to normalize this because it’s okay to feel that way. Seriously, you’re leaving your home you lived in for 18 years, the unknown, living on your own alone or with a roommate, and having to adjust to different things you’re used to in your normal surroundings. It’s a lot to be nervous and think about but you’re truly not alone in this I’ve been there too and experienced this adjustment as well. Living with a total stranger is nerving I know! But don’t let that get in the way of your goals and moving in! That is part of the college experience!

First I would start small, don’t over pack too much because you’ll only be in school for 9 months and it’s not like you’re living in your dorm forever. Leaving your dorm during winter intercession is weird so if you comfortable taking some of your important belongings I suggest you do so. Trust me it’s easier when you have to move out and move in. It’s a real pain in the but moving out so much stuff that you might not even use, bring stuff that is meaningful to you, comforting, and that you will actually use. This way move out and move will be easy and not efficient for you and the frustration from your parents. You’ll thank me later!

If you’re professors give extra credit, please take the extra credit whatever that may be it will be such a savior for you and your grade! Get to know your processors too, this is a great way for them to get to know you and you can develop a professional relationship with them. My professors have supported me so much and became my mentors, I couldn’t have survived college without them. They are the coolest people ever and if you have the opportunity to create a mentorship with them they may give you an extra chance on assignments, become more lenient, and give you some mercy for your grade and effort too! I know it seems like a lot but it will save you big time! Communication is a big factor with your professors, their purpose in college is to teach you, show you how the world works, making mistakes are natural part of learning. They are so open to communication for their students and want their students to talk to them if they need extra help, office hours, or to give them an extended period on an assignment. They don’t expect you to know everything and they defintiely don my expect you to be perfect for your first year because they understand this is all new to you. Professors are not scary and I know they’re usually framed like that from the media or movies but they are not your enemies they are you allies!

Roommates- they might love or hate you never know who you’re gonna get, make sure you choose wisely when selecting a roommate! Make sure to establish mutual respect and good communication with them and you’ll be fine. Since they’re a stranger DON’T TRUST THEM. Have your stuff locked away in a safe or somewhere they can’t access your important belongings. I’ve had a few things stolen from my roommate and it sucked! For the life of me protect your belongings!

Shopping- now be careful with this, I know that shopping for groceries or for personal pleasures on your own can be so exciting and new. But you might want to think twice about your finances as you may or may not be paying for tuition, classes, textbooks, supplies, some dorm decor, or anything that can be costly already it’s smart to think before you shop. I personally took advantage of that freedom my first year, I didn’t have a care in the world on how much I spent on dorm crap, it was too fun to not stop. Then I realized that saving my money is important because I know I will need that for something special someday. SAVE, SAVE, SAVE, and spend your money on things that matter such as groceries, dining hall meals, a fun night out with friends, or something that is going to realistically benefit you! When at the store get the most cheapest thing you see on the shelf and something on clearance that’s useful GET IT,YOUR BANK ACCOUNT WILL BE HAPPY!

This is optional but buy extra things you might run out of during the semester such as shower stuff, dish soap, cleaning supplies all the things that may run out quickly. If it does you don’t have to ring to the store because you’ll have an extras under your sink or in the bathroom!

Convenient Dorm/ Food tips-

This is one of my favorites because along my journey through college o learned how to manage life and things easier each year. If you are living in a dorm that does not have a filtered sink or water isn’t that good. DO NOT BUY A BRETA. I’ve used a BRETA for two years and it never worked for me, the filters never filtered my water great and it juts tasted like unfiltered sink water yuck! Go to the store and buy water gallons as much as you need and if you have a filtration system in your building or in one of the buildings next to your dorm building you can refill your water jugs and replenish them with more water when you run out. That way you don’t have to buy new water jugs and it’s unlimited and free water for you. Juts make sure you sterilize your water jugs once in a while. Boom, easy and good fresh filtered water just for you!

Next is soda refills, now to save you money as well you can buy yourself a soda cup from your union or wherever you get your food. You can use that paper cup to get unlimited refills without getting in trouble cause as long as you show your cup that you purchased yourself golden you won’t get caught stealing refills everyday. Juts make sure you clean out your cup very well in order to maintain it so that it doesn’t erode super fast. That’s how you get your soda craving without having to buy a soda every time!

Buy an extra fridge if you can, the fridges in most dorms are super small and not enough and won’t hold enough groceries at your liking this is because the school wants to rob your money without you even knowing it. I have two fridges and I’d say I get pretty much a ton of food and groceries with that extra space and it’s so nice because I won’t my have to go out and get food all the time, it’s all at home. This will save you a grocery run as well!

Alright, dishes. So majority of dorms do not have dishwasher but should have lounge rooms with a big sink to wash dishes but no one really uses the ooh sinks for dishes often because some do it with their personal sinks in their rooms but this causes clogging. I highly recommend buying paper plates and plastic silverware that is easily disposable. This cheat will help keep your sink area clean and you won’t ever have to worry about washing dishes in your room and sometimes it’s hard because I procrastinate or get too busy that I forget to tend to my dishes. This will for sure save you the hassle and extra stress of that!

Take something that will keep you busy, there is a lot of down time in college more than you’ll ever think. It’s pretty chill here during the middle of the semester and through the years. Something crafty, something that will keep you occupied for the time being so you don’t hit that boredom. Sometimes it does get a little boring here and there and I try to keep myself mentally stimulated!!

You can feel alone, don’t panic. It’s so normal and everyone else I’ve interacted with felt alone too and we’re looking for people to hang out with. Be patient it takes time to find your people. Think of it you’re not really alone since there’s a billion other students who are in the same boat as you. So many students on campus and in your classes as well! You’ll be surrounded with like a paparazzi crowd everyday expect everyone’s in their own world and focused on themselves.

Self-Care: Find the time to take care of you! Your first year is super tough and not easy. It’s the most hardest year to get through, you’ll probably get homesick. It’s okay to cry, scream, or feel a little sad whatever helps get your emotions out! Missing your close friends, your family and loved ones it’s hard not seeing them everyday. It hurts when they’re not there to cheer you up and give you a hug but they’re supporting from afar no matter what! This may be cornet but If you can’t see them they’re always in your heart and of course FaceTime them! They will help ground you and keep you on your feet in the times you get too in your head and feel a little lost.

They always have your back and they love you! Make sure to take care of yourself, treat yourself when he hit victories even if it’s the smallest thing. It will do you some good!Take care of your well being check in with yourself when you feel the need to, it’s good to be in tune with your mental state and soul! Do something that makes you feel comforted safe that is huge safety net for this big first year to help get you through and comfort will be there for you. Do something that will fulfill your needs! Give yourself compassion and credit because you should be proud of how far you’d come and what you’re doing leaving your family to pursue a degree is enough! It’s big and being kind to yourself when you fail or don’t feel the best what you’re doing is good and will benefit you in the end!

I hope that was helpful for you and that you can keep with you for your own journey! As you embark on this next adventure, remember who you are, where you came from, and what you gonna grow to become! College has it’s ups and down’s it not perfect and don’t have all expectations, some things you don’t expect might surprise you! Don’t be scared though, turn that into excitement! I wish you the best of luck and giving you a virtual hug during this chaotic period of life because you are never alone and you’re gonna kill it! :)