
I wish I would've talked more with my roommate before going to college. We talked about our lifestyles over snapchat but never went into depth. Some big things I didnt think about was how you have little alone time. Every night you sleep you'll be accompanied by another person, if you need to cry you just have to hope they wont hear or dont mind it lol.

I wish I had known that the ordeal would have given me PTSD. This may get downvotes but I genuinely can't fathom how anybody is able to deal with having literally 0 privacy and having a literal stranger in your room.
If it makes you feel less alone, I also had a traumatic roommate experience. I was definitely not prepared to live with a stranger, especially my roommate. She was very messy, leaving old food out and she was also pretty rude. I remember she had the door open and was talkin shit about me to my neighbors in the building hall. She also would stay in the dorm except for work and class, so it felt like I had no alone time.
Honestly sometimes you just get insanely lucky, I had basically the perfect roommate my first year, we were amicable but basically ignored each other's existence and waved if we saw each other outside our room, we never argued or really had any issues at all. She's graduating and I'm getting a single next year because I do not want to rely on getting that lucky again. I guess set expectations for how clean you both expect the room to be at the start, establish a time for when you or they need to start being quiet because one of you has to go to sleep for classes, good luck
Don't expect your roommate to be a reasonable person. I had a roommate who not only fraternized with my assaulter, but constantly brought my assaulter into the room despite me having documentation that said not to. Oh yeah, this idiot would smoke pot in the room when I explicitly told him n
Lucked out and had a pretty nice roommate over freshman year. If you're able to communicate with your roommate prior to move-in, figure out what each person needs to bring so you don't end up doubled up on microwaves and couches
ot to for a variety of reasons.
Living with someone and sharing a space with them constantly does not equal always hanging out. In fact, because you live with someone, you may have to schedule time to hang out and to be intentional about it. When I was a freshman, my roommate would expect that we would always get a chance to hang out because we live together. The truth is, that's not always the case. You and your roommate will get busy, and if you become friends, make sure that the time you spend together is intentional and not obligatory.

i wish i would’ve payed closer attention to the red flags that appeared when we talked online before meeting, because if i did i could’ve saved myself from the horrors 😬 so if there are ANY little red flags that you see right now, or anything that makes you go “hmm…” please save yourself the trouble and switch roommates as soon


Renting the cheapest dorm on campus and not expecting constant bedbugs,flies and broken plumbing.Also,rooming with a classmate who is working on a group project with you just does not work at all. Finally,when weed became legal in 2016 my roommates smoked non-stop and turned the place into a hotbox.

Expectations for sleeping is actually really important - what time you/they go to bed and get up, alarm noises & if that will make a difference, how dark or quiet you or they need the room to be. It's really important to get good sleep in college, so make sure you can hash out how to deal with potential conflicts there
