Get comfortable with using an online calendar/planner right away! Once you get your syllabi for classes, put your assignments in with reminders a few days ahead to track when deadlines are approaching. This will help you visualize the parts of the semester when you’ll have multiple assignments due at once and help organize your work time.
You can also build consistent blocks of time into your calendar for homework and studying. Treat it like a job. Don't get into the habit of skipping that time to do something else. Not only does this prevent procrastination, research demonstrates that studying regularly in small chunks of time and varying the way you study boosts understanding and retention. It's better to study for 20-30 minutes a couple times a week than to cram the night before the test.

You can also build stuff like tutoring, going to the writing center, or attending your professors' office hours into your calendar.

Yeah! I'll give you a couple methods:

My method: I'm very organized and my ducks are in a row. I work very well knowing my time in blocks. Ultimately I need to know at any time if my time is free time or not free time. On a Google calendar, this looks like setting due dates (tasks) for all assignments and objectives for things that need done. Events, such as classes, appointments, exams, etc are scheduled time blocks on your calendar. When I'm not in a scheduled time block, I'm working towards checking items off my to-do list. Personally, works very well for me because I'm mentally organized.

Need some help getting organized? Try this: Shovel. It's an organizer that will have you enter all of your classes and assignments. It sucks up front, like a lot. It takes hours to set up, but once it's done, Shovel will give you a minute-by-minute schedule of what to do every day. It will tell you what to be working on, when to be in class, when to eat lunch, etc. It's honestly kind of amazing. My only problem with Shovel is that if something falls out of line (ex. Homework for chemistry takes 2x the amount of time alloted in Shovel) your system will begin to crumble.

Read the syllabus.

You aren't "smarter than your professors"; they know the other ways of solving this problem that you're referring to and they know why their methods are also needed. They also know when those methods don't work and why.

Every class will teach you something if you are willing to learn it. Lots and lots of classes aren't really about what they say they're about. That post-colonial Irish literature elective? Maybe four people give a shit about post-colonial Irish lit. Your boss will never run up to you and say "quick! Explain how the Cromwellian conquest influenced Gaelic clan oral storytelling traditions!" That class is about learning to do research and learning to write coherent, well-supported arguments using primary sources.

Do your homework. Try to do your homework before you go to office hours. A student who sits down and says "I just don't know where to start" is one who has taken crappy notes that don't reflect what's happening in class. If your university has a tutoring center or writing center, use it. Lots of departments have such things of their own, too. Comes in and says "I was looking at problem 15 and tried this but I'm getting stuck on part Y"; you've made the effort and we can recognize that.

In a math, physics, or engineering class it's probably more important to write words than numbers. Prof spent five minutes talking about how to put an equation together and five more minutes solving it? You're probably better off spending nine minutes writing about how you put the equation together and one minute writing a note on the trick you used in step 6 and leaving space to go back to fill in the first five steps.

Your professor's job isn't to fail you. I assure you, I want you to learn something, graduate, get a good job, and pay your taxes so my pension is solvent in the unlikely event I am able to retire. But their job isn't to give you an A, either. They have a responsibility to teach you; you have a responsibility to learn.

Yes, there are a few shitty profs out there. There are also a lot of really amazing ones and more than a handful of meh ones. You have who you have. With few exceptions, you're not failing because of a shitty professor. Be honest with yourself about your efforts.

We can't do anything about textbook costs besides the rare cases where we can choose our own book. And we don't get kickbacks from the publisher for choosing their book. I fucking wish.
Get involved early. I can’t tell you how many people miss the forest for the trees. They go to college and get good grades yet do nothing else. Then when it’s time to job hunt they get continuously edged out because they missed the entire experience outside the classroom.
1.) Start assignments early

2.) Find a mentor (maybe an upperclassmen)

3.) Read the textbook ahead of class

4.) Start assignments EARLY
Yep! It's more difficult than you think. And it's great if you really just look over the assignment and get 5% of the way there, that way you have some sort of idea of how long it's going to take and any sort of research or help you're going to need to seek.

But if at all possible, when you're assigned something, try to knock out as much as humanly possibly in say, the first day or two. You'll run into problems sooner and can reach out for help.

For the love of god, start and finish your assignments and projects early.


I had a 1 credit seminar class and there were 5 basic math applications worksheets, they were all released a week before the semester even started. This was review content from earlier courses, so I was able to finish them before the first of class. That's an extreme example, but honestly, just get in the habit of starting things the day you get them. Whatever ideas you had will be fresh in your mind, and even if you get 5% done, it's a hell of a lot easier on day 2 to get from 5-15% than to start from 0, after another day of classes and more content and more assignments thrown at you. It is crucial to keep up.


Definitely read the textbook before class cuz that way if u have any questions, u can ask while the professor goes over the content. It also allows u to have a better understanding of the concepts cuz ur professor goes over the general stuff, not everything that could be on the test

People seriously overlook the concept of self care and taking care of yourself. First, it's okay to take a night to yourself and get some well deserved time to yourself. You may feel pressure to continue doing homework, studying, or hanging out with people at all times... but it's okay to not! Recognize what your self care techniques are, and do them as you feel necessary.

Second, mental health builds up like dirty dishes. If you have one or two dishes, they're pretty easy to take care of. But when you have a really big event, you're going to have a lot of dishes to do afterwards. It's always harder to do a lot more dishes than a couple at a time. Eventually, your dishes might get so bad that you're embarrassed to even think about doing them or tell people you need help doing them. Do your dishes before there's too many to handle. Dishes come first.
College isn’t high school.

You can unicycle to class, wear pajamas outside, wear a Santa hat in May, or start doing backflips on the sidewalk and no one will judge.

Also, TAKE ADVANTAGE of all the student discounts while you still can. Almost every major company gives student discounts. A lot of small businesses do to.
Nobody is gonna think you’re a looser if you eat by yourself

Take your classes seriously and go to office hours

Remember to take care of your physical health

Don’t be afraid to do your own thing

Partying is overrated. Stumbling back into your dorm at 2:00am is trashy
I'm about to finish my freshman-year. Here is something I'd tell you

1 Start studying early but don't overdo, just be smart. Decide if you care about gpa and act accordingly.

2 Take care of your body. Exercise regularly and eat healthy. Being sick and alone sucks, I warned you.

3 Do not give into peer pressure. This is not high school, it's bigger. You don't need to fit in a group; you will find like-minded people.

4 Do not skip lectures if you know you will fall behind. Do skip lectures if you are tired and you already know you won't pay attention. There is no such feeling as knowing you have wasted a whole day in class without listening while you could have taken a day off.

5 Read the syllabus. Takes a few minutes. Do not think you are smarter than your professor.

6 Connect. There is no such thing as building relationships in college that will last for a lifetime.

7 Say yes to a lot of things. Don't limit yourself like "im not a club-person/ im not a trainspotting person/ im not a heavy metal fan..." If you have the chance, experiment.


I haven't mentioned partying because you have to find out alone. Experience that and figure out what kind of partying you like. Just stay safe.

if you’re REALLY not wanting to get started on some work, put a timer on for 10 (maybe 15) minutes and force yourself to focus for that time. If you still really don’t want to work once that timer goes off, allow yourself to go do something else that’s productive for 30mins or so. Maybe workout, go for a walk, read, clean, or even do a different assignment for school or read your textbooks.

Most of the time the hardest part is getting started. Frequently, by the time that 10 min timer is up, you’ve got over that initial hurdle and have some motivation to keep going


Push through the feeling of discomfort and go do that social thing. Being in a groove in that regard and feeling like you belong can really effect everything in college. Feel free to use social media but don’t take it as reality; if you see people from home and it looks like they’re having a better time than you on there it’s most likely a projection, we’re all kind of going thru the same shit in actuality
You're already paying hundreds of dollars a semester in facility fees--make use of them by adopting and sticking to some kind of exercise routine. It's not some magic cure-all, but it will help reduce stress, give you energy, and add scheduled chunk to your day where your brain and body are doing something other than school work, which is good for overall productivity and preventing burnout.

Your brain is part of your body, it won't be at it's best unless you take care of the rest of yourself.

 Read the textbook!

It still surprises me how many people don't do this. The text is a consistent form of communication on the subject that you control the pace of.

● Don't rely on your professor to teach you.

This is your education. Not all professors are great and some schools are introducing teaching modalities that may not work for you. You have to be proactive when it comes to learning.

● Seek additional resources.

The textbooks are useful; however, reading additional related material helps too.

● Make sure you have time to study appropriately.

The worst mistake I've made is thinking I could handle a large classload. It's worked sometimes, but I've paid for it more often than not.

● Don't just mindlessly solve the problems (STEM students, looking at you).

Make sure you understand the material as you're working out the solutions. Reduces the time needed for review

Also, I've met too many students who had good grades but didn't actually understand the material. This makes no sense to me since many students choose to pursue additional education, which often requires an exam for acceptance (example: MCAT).

● You will make mistakes.

It's part of the process. Dust yourself off and try again.

● It's not a race. It's a marathon.

Control your pace, manage your health (mental and physical), eat and sleep right when you can.

● Get involved in research, clubs, etc.

Builds practical skills, applies your knowledge, and builds your resume early.

● College/ GPA isn't the end all be all.

There's more to life, and academic success does not absolutely mean career or personal success. Learn to work with others, be observant, resourceful, and focused on achieving your goals.

There's more to college than just taking classes. It's an opportunity to mold yourself into the person you want to be in a relatively low risk environment.

Goodluck!
'm seein a lot of advise for how to do well in classes, but I think financial advise is wayyyyy more important in the long run.

Not trying to rain on your parade here, College can be a great experience and really worth it, but it also very often can be a total money pit that gets you nothing, or when you do end up getting a great job afterwards you could end save a few 10s of thousands just by avoiding a few pitfalls.

You may not care a lot now cause your parents handled the paperwork, securing your student loan, and whatever else for now, but you're most likely the one who'll have to be paying the bills when this is all over, so best understand a few things first to not end up in a huge debt hole like a lot of people in our generation and join the "Our whole generation can't afford houses or other basic amenities" Club.


Seriously Consider starting at Community College.
Not many people I know, myself included, actually stuck with their first choice of major, or even our first choice of school, and we were all ~4.0gpa AP students. Whether it be from high school burnout or just not really understanding what we were getting ourselves into when it came to our first choice of major, we all ended up switching majors and ending up at the same cheaper school than what we initially picked (some of us after a year or 2 break to re-think things).
Community College for at least your first year is a very smart and affordable way to play around with what major you actually want to do, and is much easier to get into than before with the boom of online schooling. If you're not doing so hot with Chem 1 and 2, it's just gunna get harder so quit while you're ahead and pick a different major. The cost of pivoting at a community college is often 10s of thousands of dollars cheaper than a normal 4 year school, and if you're not going for a high salary stem job, you quite frankly probably can't afford to flush that kinda money down the toilet if you ever wanna get a house, go on nice vacations, and all the other stuff you'd typically look forward in your adult life.
Just waiting until you have a very solid idea of your choice of major and actually trying a few semesters of classes in it before going for a 4yr school will be much better.
All the best parts of college life will still be there if you enter in year 2 or 3, and getting into schools is also usually easier if you got some schooling under your belt already.

College Dorms and Meal plans are a scam
They're often priced like luxury apartments and eating out at restaurants daily, yet you get a shared bedroom, no access to a kitchen, a communal bathroom, strict rules, and food that's high school cafeteria grade on average.
You can usually get an apartment and buy your own food much more affordably, and you get much more for your money (private bedroom, shared kitchen/bathroom/living room with 1-3 friends)
If your school requires staying in a dorm first semester/year, even more reason to consider point #1, cause they seriously can be THAT expensive.

Don't just pick a major because you think you can do it
The guidance counselors, professors, parents, etc all try to tell you "oh you can get any degree and be successful" and while you technically can, you usually will end up working some random other totally unrelated job if you pick a non-STEM field. College degrees are so expensive that you really need to justify their cost.
Almost everyone I know who graduated with a non-STEM degree got some random unrelated job and is making <$20/hr 5 years later $10-30k in debt in the hole.
Can you reliably get $25/hr+ right out the gate within a few months of sending out 30-50 resumes a month? If the answer is no, probably don't pick that field (and yes, most fields require you to send out that many resumes over months to get a decent job, even STEM).
Check some job search websites for jobs you think are in your field BEFORE solidifying your choice of major. There are a lot of fields where the entry level positions are like Masters Degree and/or 2-5yrs experience required to make really not that much money.
Make sure to check the average cost of a studio/1bedroom apartment in the area for any jobs that do look good as well, because 50-60k a year might sound good, until you realize that it costs 1800 a month for a place to stay, and food also costs twice as much as where you're from.
Also some fields really only have jobs in specific areas that are far from where you call home, and a lot of people don't like being away from friends and family for more than a few years to kick off their career.

Do you wanna do a trade job instead?
Sure, there are a lot of good jobs you can get from College, but there are also a lot of more hands-on jobs that are in rising demand that you don't need a degree for. After a few generations of parents telling their kids "don't be an electrician, or a plumber, or a construction worker, go to college!" all these jobs are now in higher and higher demand, meaning not only housing costs going up, but also these people can charge more for their work.
Kids don’t know, colleges can be a huge waste of time. Picking the right major is the most important thing ever. Money is important, and most jobs will suck. So go for the one you can tolerate and pays the most. Then and only then will you be able to pursue your passions. Nice cars, houses, and financial security is important.

Do you wanna be a graphic designer making $15 an hour with a bachelors or an RN/ ultra sound tech making $50 an hour. Truck driver 100k HVAC tech, plumber, welder, electrician 100k. Crap even a phlebotomy 1 semester certificate pays around $22 an hour. Etc…

Harsh opinion; I believe graphics design degree is unless, because I know people that have it and are making McDonald’s money. You can teach yourself this without wasting time in collage. There tons of YouTube videos. If you really wanna get into it, get a job as one. It doesn’t require a degree and you will learn as you work. You will save yourself the headache of taking useless classes that you will forget, or are just a repeat of high school.

Also might I add lie, if your good at graphic design lie that you have a degree if required. Most jobs don’t check. And guess what they lie to you all the time as well. Companies promises all kinds of things and don’t deliver. There competing for employees. Lie that you have experience too. If your decent at it, it will work itself out. This is something people don’t tell you, but nobody is smarter then you. I have friends that are RN’s, police officers, managers that are total morons. So don’t doubt yourself.
There's already great ideas in here so I'll add my few:

- Find your study style: the classes where I got the highest grades were the ones where I studied in a way that fits me best as opposed to what other students do (I learned best by quizzing myself and my classmates I was studying with, and whenever I studied alone I used a whiteboard to write out concepts)

- write down questions that come to mind during class and take them to your professor or TA's office hours. Gives you some face time with them which can go a long way if you want a reference one day, and also gives you the chance to get direct insight into the subjects you're learning

- at some point, book a meeting with your career centre to learn about things you can do during college to set yourself for success post-college

- if possible, do something fun during the summers. The school year can feel crazy so if you can find some time to relax and enjoy yourself, do it. Even a few small trips can make a difference

- try out new things: I'm not saying college is a "time to experiment" but it's a new chapter for you and has plenty of opportunities to try stuff out. Join a club that aligns with an interest, attend events that pique your curiosity, stuff like that.

Good luck next year!
go find where secluded restrooms are, so you can do your business in peace,

If there is food on campus go find out when is the best time to get lunch, you do not want to get it too early but you do not want to wait in line either.

always give yourself plenty of time in your schedule to eat and walk to class. Seriously do not be a fool to pack everything to tightly otherwise you will be late and get the worse seat

always go to office hours

always try to avoid used textbooks as much as possible, they do not have to be new, up to date versions, a new old last edition will work too, or go online. But avoid used books the students torture the hell out of them and treat them poorly. leaving unsightly things in them. Or ask the professor to leave a copy in the library, that you can read and take notes from.

Also your book store be aware of their policy on book orders too, they might try to automatically order you a used book instead of a new one. but always ask if they have it online code.

Always be prepared to spend more money on a class, they all use online programs and online teaching material that require a code to access that have to be bought either at the bookstore or straight from the site

check to see if your school requires you to use an Ipad, if they do then you will have to be expected to take exams on that.

Also this is important, Do not take more than you can chew, There is no shame in retreat by dropping a class especially if it is a GE nonmajor class. You fail those and your GPA is screwed. The whole point of college sadly these days is who gives a crap if you learn, but do whatever you can to keep your GPA high, a bad GPA will screw you for good each repeat course adds a semester to your time in college.

There is no such thing as an easy class even for a GE, each school is different, some schools do have easy classes even for your major, but do not be suprised if you have an Ahole professor, just if that is the case plan ahead of time do not take more than you need to, even take less if possible just focus on passing that ahole's class.
Treat college like a 9-5 as much as you can. If you spend anywhere near 40 hrs working toward your degree, you will be in a seriously good place when you graduate. I also recommend students to read “so good they can’t ignore you” and “deep work” by Cal Newport. That is the biggest skill deficit I see in most students at my university. One place to start - never open your phone in class, it’s a great place to start training your brain to focus for longer.
Not sure if it's the same for anyone else, but the first few weeks determine the tempo for the rest of the semester.

You'll have an easier time making a habit out of what you did the first few weeks, so force yourself to start assignments early and read the textbooks, do practice problems, etc.

The first few days is usually other freshmen looking to make friends, but not going out of their way to do so. Go up and say hi if you want to make friends with someone. Hard to do if you're not used to it, but the start of college is the easiest time to try. Start of the semester is the second easiest if you want to hang out with others from your class, which might help you in the long run. From my experience, I made friends with someone that turned out to be really good with philosophy, which helped me in the class a lot.

Don't do everything in the same room. Find a place to get work done that you won't game, fool around, perhaps even eat if eating becomes a distraction. Change the place you work in every now and then. I found that changing the place once every 2 weeks was efficient for me, as well as having a different place for my humanitarian classes and my stem classes.

Read the textbook for all of your classes, and search up practice problems for anything stem related. If your school has free tutoring, go if you just can't seem to understand something. I can't stress this enough. A huge portion of my classmates could've done much better if they did. That being said, don't be afraid to pirate textbooks if you don't need a specific code. Some professors encourage it while most just done care.

If your professor has office hours avalible by default, attend if you can, even if you already know the material. Worst case scenario, you get more practice in, best case scenario you make a connection with your professor.

Unless you absolutely hate your professor, try sticking with them if they teach a class you'll end up taking later on. You'll know how they grade and you'll have a bonus if you already have a good relationship with them.

Look up what research you professor did/does and see if you're interested in hearing about it. If they have time, they'd love to talk about it, assuming they aren't outright bad people.

Don't be afraid to attend campus events that seem like fun. In my experience, I went to an integral bee and ended up meeting some of the most amazing people that ended up helping me get a research position.

Do clubs if you can. Don't waste your early years on doing nothing outside of school.

This spiraled into a much bigger comment than I expected, but I'll keep going if anyone wants.
When you need a day- whether it be on the weekend or randomly midweek- to do absolutely nothing….Do it. But….wake up at a normal hour, take a shower, and have a good breakfast.

When I took a few necessary days due to the workload early in the year, I slept in and by midafternoon actually felt wasteful. Then I decided to start my day with purpose…just not do schoolwork. I ended up having really enjoyable, rich days as opposed to wasting time watching YouTube for 8 hours. Really refreshed me.

Try to not stress too much. I'm a senior rn and during the summers with nothing to do, I've realized how happy I am during the semester, even though I'm busy, I have so much fun and do much better being preoccupied. And somehow, friends seem to find you in college, cuz everyone's looking to make friends. Just enjoy it as it comes and try to keep stress down, it may not be the same for everyone but in my experience, even with the busy-ness, college is a blast
ggest piece of advice I could ever give: do the assignments when they are assigned and do your studying BEFORE you cover it in class or at least right after (as in same day you cover it.)

If you do this, not only will you keep up on the material, but most importantly you will not have a bunch of due dates bearing down on you and constantly in the back of your mind.

Waiting to do assignments led to so much stress that I was absolutely miserable through most of college. Due dates were always on my mind, even on vacation. It wears on you, believe me.

Once I started doing them as soon as possible (usually day of) and studying before I went to lecture, it was like a whole new world openned. I no longer felt any stress when I closed up for the evening, and I was able to pay attention in class because I had an idea of what we were talking about. Rather than spending my entire weekend catching up on assignments and studying for the test that week, my weekends were always free and all I had to do was review a couple of hours before the exam. Life became so much better and I became so much more of a happier person.

The next pieces of advice would be the stuff everyone tells you to do, but nobody wants to actually do:

Become a morning person. I don't care if you have to take melatonin at night, sleep with a mask covering your eyes and headphones with whitenoise then wake up with 2 monsters in the morning (yes, I did that). College classes and the world in general is geared towards morning people. I even had meetings at 6AM (which is downright sadistic for a college kid). You will do so much better if you go to bed and wake up a couple of hours before your earliest class would start during the semester. And get up at that time everyday to establish and stay on a sleep schedule. The late night hangouts are tempting, but refrain for your own good.

Eat healthy. Fruits vegetables, and lean meats when possible. So many college kids fall for the fast food resturantes on campus, but eating that food everyday will catch up with you, you will gain weight, and you will feel like crap most days that you do it.

work out. You will likely spend hours a day in class or studying. Get up and move at some point to get the blood moving and regain your focus. Study an hour, than get up and walk a lap around the library. Go to the gym even 30 minute a day. If your into lifting weights or want to be, you can walk in to the gym and simply hit 1 muscle group a day: biceps, triceps, shoulder, chest, back, legs, abs. Doing this alone with proper diet is enough to build noticeable muscle and definition. You don't have to workout like Arnold Swarznegger, but just do something to be active and break up the monotony.

4), Get off campus and into a rental or your own home as soon as possible. It's not only a whole lot cheaper, but you get so much more freedom. Pair this up with an off campus job and your freind group will also diversify which will give you multiple outlooks on life.

5) Make sure college is what you want to do.

After the pandemic, you can find jobs working at Walmart or other larger chains paying as much as some college-required jobs do now. The degree requirements are also being dropped across the board for many jobs.

Give this plenty of thought before hand. You will have to take classes that have nothing to do with your major or job. Many classes will be difficult, you may even have to retake them multiple times. (Side note: Don't be discouraged by that and automatically switch majors as many people do). Do not go to college because it's "what everyone else does" or because of parental pressure if you are the one paying the bill. It's very expensive (most college kids don't think about the debt until the bill starts coming due, at least I sure didnt) so the earlier you figure out that you don't want to do it, the better. Even if you quit, the bill still comes due every month. The further you go, the deeper the hole you dig, until you eventually have no choice but to compete it and find a job that can pay the bill. A lot of college kids end up in jobs they hate because of this.

6) Finally, remember to have fun.

College is work. Don't ever forget that. It's not the big party everyone makes it out to be on TV. Yes there may be some drinking, promiscuity, gossip, and probably some drugs (I highly advise not partaking in at least the latter as many jobs and internships during college drug test and failing one can also be grounds for dismissal from college if you are deemed unprofessional or an embarrassment to the school. I have known people personally this happened to. And again, you still have the bill to pay, degree or not). With that being said, it's okay to go out with some freinds on a Friday or Saturday night. Get lunch and dinner with people for an hour rather than scarffing down food in 15 minutes so you can get back to it. Relax a little bit and have fun. Moderation is everything. To much fun and you'll flunk out or get kicked out, too little and you'll burn out. Find that happy medium.

Note: this is from a bio major. Your millage may differ depending on degree, department, and university.

You learn best when you get 8 hours of sleep immediately after studying. Get enough sleep each night. I can't stress enough how important it is to just sleep.

Repetition is king for education, so make some flash cards and just constantly cycle through them until you know them all. Make a deck for each class you take and just keep them in your backpack. Whenever you've got 5+ minutes of waiting, shuffle them and just go through them. It'll be important to keep all of your flash cards for a class together, since you'll need to review all of the material for the final exam.

Use a Google Calendar for: class times, work schedule(s), study time, tests, essay writing time, friend hangouts, etc. Put your entire syllabus into your calendar. If you only pick up one skill from college, make sure it's time management.

You can save a lot of money once you're off meal plan by just getting a rice cooker, a ton of rice, some cheap bags or cans of frozen veggies, and cans of beans. Just learn how to cook in general (when you get a chance, grab "The Joy of Cooking", it has recipes and cooking techniques) instead of relying on fast food

Know what job you are trying to get before you pick your major (you don't really have to fully decide on your major until you're done with your core classes). Look up job postings for that profession and see what the salary range is. Look up rent around those areas. Is the rent in those areas around a third of the salary (be sure to deduct about a quarter of the pay for taxes when eyeballing this)? If not, then you either need to pick a different place to work/live, or you need to pick another profession. Don't get a bunch of student loans and not have a financial plan for after college. And definitely don't discount moving back in with your folks to save up on money, especially with rent prices being what they are (assuming they're okay with that, and that you're okay with living with them again)

Make a semester-by-semester plan for every class you're going to need to take for your major. Make sure that all of the prerequisites for each class are accounted for, and make sure the class are offered during those semesters (some might be offered only spring of every odd year, for example). This would have saved me an extra semester if I had done this kind of thinking ahead.

The friends you make in college will likely be with you for the rest of your life. Be sure to make a lot of friends, since after graduation everyone will likely move to different places. It's way better to have a few friends in a few surrounding towns than to have all of your friends over an hour away from you.

You don't know what you don't know. Assume you have no clue what activities you like. Try as many things as possible, the hobby that makes you the happiest might be something you've never considered before.

Try to get an internship (paid if you can swing it!) every summer. Internships can roll into job offers after you graduate, but if nothing else you'll network and have job experience to put on your resume.
Don’t. Skip. Class. Even if the prof doesn’t take attendance or the subject is easy.

Meet with your academic/major advisor once a year to go over your plan and class choices so you don’t end up taking more classes than necessary. Do not try to DIY your classes based on the requirements list.

Realize that the way college is portrayed in movies is a fantasy, particularly American colleges. Every year this sub is full of foreign students who are unhappy about their experience because they had a skewed idea of what it would be.

Go to office hours prepared with actual questions.

Don’t be afraid to change majors just because you’ve already “wasted” time in other classes. It’s not a reason to “waste” the rest of your life doing something you dislike. (Google “sunk cost fallacy”)

Don’t stress out about graduating “on time.” There are factors beyond your control that will affect what classes you can get into.

Realize that employers don’t really care about your GPA. Getting a B is okay.

For assignments that are turned in online, never assume the due date is at 11:59pm (midnight). Sometimes it’s due at 11:59am (noon) or another random time. Be really sure of when it’s actually due.

As everyone has said here…DO YOUR ASSIGNMENTS EARLY. The number of personal issues, tech problems, loud roommates, family problems, work changes, etc that come up in those last hours are shocking.
ou should reach out to current seniors at your university and some people in your field. That's my advice. They will have better suggestions fit for you and be a good ongoing resource. LinkedIn is a good way to make connections and reach out to people who attend your university or graduated from it.

A lot of people will try to answer this. A lot of people will give what is seemingly a decent answer. But the best answers are going to be from people who had similar goals and are willing to grab a coffee or hop on a call with you to discuss your questions at length. More people are willing to do that than you'd think. It helps with networking too. One of the people I talked to for advice eventually gave me an internship referral.

If you don't have the time to set up a LinkedIn, you can post on a career related subreddit to find people willing to talk with you. The actual discussion beyond chat is important because the dialog is so much better and you usually get a lot more information from the conversation. I'm not super extroverted so I would not be pushing you this way without a good reason.

on't kill yourself trying to do more work than is necessary, especially in undergrad level classes. Look at assignment requirements and meet or exceed them with as little effort as possible. It's easier to get good grades if you aren't overworked, and meeting the requirements your professor gives is the point of assignments and courses.

A full-time student's course load is designed to be a full-time job and usually exceeds that, so don't give yourself extra work

Also important to go over all the learning objectives and focus on them so you don't end up putting time into learning things that aren't required.
ead every single word of your syllabi. There’s sometimes bonus points hidden in there, others it’s just good to know their policies so you don’t have to email about 1 million things.

Meet with professors throughout the semester. I try to see each of my professors at least once if not every time a paper is due. They see that you’re putting effort in, they’ll often give you credit for it.

Find planning methods that work for you. Personally, it’s an iPad with my class schedule as the lock screen and a good notes file with a to do list and monthly planner. On the side for other people’s purposes, I have an outlook calendar to know when I can meet with people (I’m facilitating a class for freshman so they have to meet with us)

Go to the activities fair and sign up for an absolute minimum of five clubs. It’s not a commitment usually, you’re just on their email list so if it works with your schedule, you can go, if it doesn’t, you don’t. But signing up for more gives you more options to find things you like.

Find time to shower. Even if you are stressed about all the work you have to do, take time to go take care of yourself, shower, workout, or whatever else you need to do. Because your mental health will start slipping if you don’t allow yourself time to breathe.

If you were the type of person that is naturally smart and flew through highschool without much difficulty, as I did, please do your note taking and studying seriously. I went to one of the better public Engineering schools in the US and got through freshman and sophomore year fine, struggled moderately junior year, and crashed into a wall senior year because I didn't keep up on my study habits.

Pay attention to courses that are prerequisites for future courses. It can come back to bite you if you didn't fully understand the basics before moving to things that build OFF of them.

Most professors love when you come in during their office hours for a question or to clear up a lecture topic, it shows to them you are trying to be on top of your game. It is also just an important life skill to know when to swallow your pride and ask for help :)

These are all suggesting coming from someone who had 6 courses left before finishing undergrad, but withdrew for 2 years to rebalance myself before going back and getting it done
take advantage of everything you can for your money, clubs, events and tutoring etc. anything free and given to you, do use.

wait on buying your textbooks until you read the syllabus. some professors use it and require it, some don’t. it depends. sometimes it’s not even needed at all. but if you’d like extra knowledge or to get ahead, you should buy it beforehand. the textbook can be important either way but some textbooks i didn’t find to help me (if not required). depends on how you learn.

do your homework to learn, not for the grade. make your mistakes here and not on the quizzes / exams.

take care of your physical and mental health. this is important. get enough sleep and have time to yourself, social time and study. you will do better in classes, trust me.

don’t procrastinate. college work is usually not easy and if you start early, you’ll be more prepared and have better work done for the due date.

read the syllabus carefully and understand the grading system, assignments and rules of the class. this can save you big time. it’s important.
Doing engineering? Here's my 2 cents after the first 2 years:

Doing things early and knowing at least **3 other classmates is how you get an A. Don't pretend like you can procrastinate things well without any kind of schedule. Even if everyone you know is doing stuff until the last minute. Even if the professor downplays the difficulty of the assignments. You're gonna eventually f*ck up. Actually **allocate the time somehow.

Get chegg, or a subscription to a relevant study help website/resource. In many cases, your homework will become unsolvable within a reasonable amount of time and your professor won't be able to give less of a crap.

Dont feel entitled. Nobody owes you anything, and be grateful for what you're given without ignoring injustices that you and your classmates go through without getting credit for your work. Professors won't help you before you help yourself.

Know the value of tests and assignments in the syllabus and work on what you should accordingly. Some classes make a midterm and final worth basically everything and you'll fail