You will always need to take a trip to the Walmart down the road in the first week. It is inevitable
I wish I bought one of those cloth clothes holders, got one my second year for my sweatshirts and heavy clothes and it's been great, I'll attach a pic here soon to show what I'm talking about.
Cleaning supplies. Lysol wipes, a small vacuum, laundry detergent, paper towels, small garbage can bags.

I forgot a thing to have a side table or area for my lofted bed! My phone would constantly fall off my bed until I got a woven basket that connects to the bunk bed to hold my phone, meds, clock etc!

I didn’t forget this, but I find it astonishing that most of my classmates have. College is a Petri dish, get medicine

Cough/cold, fever, pain reliever, nasal spray if needed, vapor rub, anti diarrheal/stomach relief medicine, cough drops

Bug spray, calamine, rubbing alcohol, band aids, antibiotic ointment

Along with vitamins (magnesium, iron (I’m a girl so this was extra necessary for me), d4, multivitamins.

I carried all of this and although it seems like an excess I have not yet had to ask a friend for medicine or take a trip to the campus clinic when I felt sick
Medication and vitamins (medications for the cold / flu season because nearby drugstores will be sold out when it comes time, maybe some vitamin c pills or packets because everyone can usually use an extra dose, pain relievers, etc). Maybe some liquid IV too. Imodium / pepto bismal. Allergy medication (regular allergy pills and Benadryl) - if he’s going somewhere that is not close to where y’all live, I would also recommend getting him some local honey as it can help adjust his body to the local pollen / local environment

First aid kit - just a basic one, no need for a tourniquet or anything. But having some neosporin, bandaids, gauze, gloves, etc can help if he or someone else gets hurt in the dorms and doesn’t want to go to student health / the nearest health clinic. Maybe also an ice pack and heat pack. Also add tweezers and a nail clipper.

Maybe get one of those animals or pillows that you can pop in a microwave to heat up. Not sure if he’s a comfort creature but since he’s leaving home for the first time, they can be something that’s warming and nice. Or a heated blanket if he’s not plushie type.

A little pouch / shelf that connects to the bed rail if his bed is lofted or high. It gives you a place to put your phone while sleeping as well as book or other things he might want.

His favorite candies / shelf stable food. Nothing beats a pot of Kraft mac and cheese at like 2am during a midterm or finals week.

Condoms and pregnancy tests. Even if he’s not planning on being sexually active, better safe than sorry. Just also make sure he knows how to keep them usable (guys, don’t keep a condom in your wallet or car).

USPS forever stamps (if in US) because sending and receiving letters is actually quite nice. I joined a thing in my hometown that a family “adopted” a college student and sent a letter or a package every once in a while and that always gave me a boost when at college. Maybe also some letter envelopes so he doesn’t have to go buy those too.

Box fan / heater. Maybe this is something that y’all can get day of once you scope out where he is living but the range for university controlled AC / heat is not great so it might be good to get a fan for the fall and spring seasons and a small space heater for the winter.

An electric kettle was so helpful my first year. Don’t have to heat up the water in the microwave and you can use it for tea, hot chocolate, ramen, oatmeal, etc.

You can never have too many extension cords / power strips (with surge protection!) and command hooks / strips. Can’t usually nail anything into the walls and sometimes the outlets are in the worst places.

Basic vacuum / broom with dust pan. A small one that can be easily stored away. Because one day, someone’s gonna break open that powder cheese packet from the mac and cheese and there’s gonna be orange powder everywhere.

Sleep mask and earbuds. Roommates are a beast of their own but he will likely go to bed for his roommate at times and making sure that he can tune out the light and noise will help him sleep better

Water filter pitcher like a Brita. Staying hydrated is good but college water usually isn’t great. A Brita or similar can help filter anything that’s not the best out.

Batteries (a couple of each type) and a flash light or small electric lantern. Just in case the power goes out (since no candles allowed)

Enough socks and underwear to go at least two weeks without doing laundry. Sometimes life gets the best of you and no one wants to wear dirty underthings. If you don’t want to get him them, then maybe just a reminder will do. Same with bath towels. You can get by with washing your sheets every so often in college but bath towels should be clean.

Cleaning supplies like Lysol wipes, maybe some febreze, a tide stain stick pen, stain remover spray

Noise cancelling headphones can be great if he has to study in a place with other people. Even if he doesn’t play music with them, it’s good at muffling the outside sound.

Also sending him letters or texts to check in on a consistent basis would be super nice. Being on your own for the first time can be great but also super lonely because you’re usually without anyone you’re used to and it’s a completely new situation.

You’re a lovely sibling and I hope your brother has a great time at college!!


Liquid IV, Snacks, a blanket, a family/ pet photo with frame, command hooks for the photo or for his hats and towels (sometimes schools can be picky about holes on the wall), air plug fresheners or febreze (trust, brothers be stinky! 😵‍💫)an umbrella. Water filter, shower catty! Bed sheets!nail cutters, tweezers, a good shower caddy, one suit, shoes to do whatever in, tons of socks, tons of underwear, tons of hairties, a mini fridge, hella fans if u don't got AC.


